---
id: 1-2-4-all
title: '1, 2, 4, ALL!'
description: >-
  Involve all meeting participants in generating ideas, questions, and
  suggestions
tags:
  - Facilitation
links:
  - title: 1-2-4-All
    url: 'https://www.liberatingstructures.com/1-1-2-4-all/'
    minutes: 3
  - title: >-
      Engage Everyone Simultaneously in Generating Questions, Ideas, and
      Suggestions with 1–2–4-ALL
    url: >-
      https://medium.com/the-liberators/use-1-2-4-all-to-tap-into-the-collective-brainpower-of-a-group-of-any-size-6cf60ac7a818
    minutes: 5
related:
  - brainwriting
  - idoarrt
---
## 🧠 Brainstorming

One of the essential tasks of a facilitator in organizing a brainstorming session is to use the time and resources of the participants effectively.

If you want a method that works well with groups of different sizes with limited time, you should try **1-2-4-All**. It's a way to get everyone involved in generating ideas, questions, and suggestions simultaneously.

Let's look at the structure of the method!

## 🎯 Step 1. Set the theme

Formulate a question about one of the problems that need to be addressed.

For example: "What opportunities do you think would help move this case forward? How would you get out of the situation? What ideas or actions can you recommend?"

When the context and question are clear, the work can begin.

## 📝 Step 2. Individual work

Participants think independently about the common problem and write down their ideas in a notebook or on post-it notes.

**Time**: 1 minute

_Optionally, you can set an idea limit (3-5 ideas) or extend the time._

## 👯‍♂️ Step 3. Working in pairs

1.  Participants are divided into pairs. The closest neighbor can be chosen for the pair. In case of online meetings, pairs can be formed automatically.
2.  Pairs generate new ideas from their notes, which can be written on post-its.

**Time:** 2 minutes

_As an option, you can limit the number of ideas per group (1-3 ideas) or increase the time._

## ✍️ Step 4. Working in a group of four

1.  Participants create groups of four, combining two pairs.
2.  In the new groups, ideas from the previous step are discussed and refined. Participants note similarities and differences.

**Time:** 4 minutes

_As an option, a limit on the number of ideas per group can be set (1-3 ideas), or the time can be increased._

## 👀 Step 5. All Together

1.  Participants return to the general discussion.
2.  The facilitator asks, "What one idea stood out in your conversation in a group of four?"
3.  Each group shares one important idea.

**Time:** 5 minutes

_As an option, you can increase the number of ideas to 2-3._

## 👉 Tips and Tricks

-   Prepare everything you need for participants to reflect on their own in a quiet environment before discussing ideas in pairs.
-   Ask participants to write down ideas as they work independently.
-   Use a bell to announce the next phase.
-   Strictly respect the time limit; hold another round if necessary.
-   If the group is large, in the "everyone" phase, reduce the number of shared ideas to three or four.
-   Let each group share one idea, no repeating.
-   The process of generating ideas should not turn into a group discussion.
-   Stop evaluating, visualize ideas, and let your imagination run wild!
-   In case of hiccups, try another form of expression (e.g., improvisation, sketches, stories).
-   Make sure the rule in the group is "When one talks, the rest stay quiet."
-   Try a second round if you have failed to rock out!

## 👍 Involvement of all participants

**1-2-4-All** allows for 12 minutes to engage everyone simultaneously in generating ideas, questions, and suggestions.

No matter how large the group is, this technique allows every participant to be involved in the search for answers. With it, conversations flow openly, and ideas and solutions are selected quickly. Most importantly, participants own the ideas, so follow-up and implementation are simplified!
